Limits of the developers. The application process requires that the city review the application against the adopted DCP ordinance. For rezoning specifically, this means the application for rezoning is measured against the approval criteria that are listed in the ordinance. For the PLAT and the conditional use permit, the applications are reviewed against the other standards of the city's subdivision and zoning ordinance as well as the DC. Through this review, the city is also able to assign conditions of approval that the applicant will meet to actually affect the approval. The application for preliminary PLAT for the proposed Edmondson Business Center proposes a new configuration of parcels via the subdivision process. At present, the subject property is made up of 16 parcels, and the PLT would establish new parcel configurations. The PLT also establishes the necessary right-of-way and easements for the various public improvements that are necessary to serve this project. The rezoning to data center plan unit development creates a primary data center campus development parcel, including a substation parcel. It establishes a zoning district again, specific to the site, which is drafted as the proposed Edmondson Business Center DCP. Of the approximately 340, I'm sorry, 547 acres, 370 acres, again, that's approximate. You can see on the map, is proposed to be rezoned to data center planned unit development. That includes both the primary area for data center development as well as the proposed collectoral substation. The application submitted also proposes two other rezonings. The first is a proposed rezoning to agricultural open space, our AO district. That rezoning is proposed for two outlots which encompass land within 1,000 feet of the water basin that lies along the southerly boundary of these proposed or this proposed project. The two outlets and cursor are the yellow outlaws. They represent approximately 1335 acres in total, and they're split by what will be either an outlet or a public right-of-way for the extension of municipal utilities and a public trail that will provide access to the settlement space. The applicant also proposes a rezoning to industrial business campus. Those parcels are located in the northwest portion of the property, and they include two outlots at this location and dislocation, both approximately four acres in size, as well as a plated lot at this location, which is required to be dedicated to the city as part of the subdivision process for future municipalities. Finally, the conditional use permit has been requested as part of the applications. The conditional use permit would authorize data center and data center campus facilities as defined by the ordinance and would be subject to the conditions outlined by the city. I should note that does include a required site plan review for ordinance. Approval of any of the current applications would be contingent on city council approval of annexation and a companion annexation agreement. The subject property is located within the Monticello orderly annexation area, and the properties have all petitioned for annexation to the city. The recommendations of the commission would move forward to the city council for decision, and again would be contingent on the items that you see here. To affect any of the initial applications noted, the preliminary PLAT, the rezoning application, and the conditional use permit, City Council approval of a final PLT application with a companion development agreement is also required. And we'll talk a little bit this evening about what the annexation agreement requires and what the development contract requires. Again, the application.

Application approvals are only affected with the execution, meaning the signature on these agreements, and the fulfillment of the terms of the annexation and development agreements. They provide a specific outline of the required public and private infrastructure improvements, the securities that are required for those improvements, and the timing of submission of the securities and any required ISPOs. Prior to any site development, site plan review is required. Site plan review is an administrative review. It does not go before the planning commission on council, but rather is used to check that the applicant has provided all of the required plans to make sure that they have followed the DCP ordinance, their own specific ordinance, the conditions of approval, as well as any other ordinance requirements that apply. And then finally, of course, the site development is subject to any required building permits and building permit review for each basic development. All parts of the proposed data center development project must comply with the minimum performance standards of the DCPD. Planning Commission may recall that the DCPD sets a series of minimum performance standards. These are the baseline requirements for any data center developments. They include a requirement for maximum building heights, the types of building materials that are required for both principal and accessory structures, rooftop screening requirements, specific parking requirements, off-street loading, and any other provisions that are specifically listed in the distinction. As I noted, all other requirements of the city code except as otherwise provided in the DCPD are also available. Plan submissions for permitting, whether site plan or building permit, will be reviewed for consistency with the terms and conditions of all of the council's approvals, including that DCP ordinance that is specific to this site. And that ordinance has been drafted and is included as a draft in the planning commission's packet as the admins and business of the planning development. So to summarize, the development controls in place for data center development in Monticello include base ordinances for data center development, that is ordinance 865, and the DCPD site ordinance that is developed and approved specific to this project. All development contracts which outline the terms and conditions for development and the timeline for submission of securities and other payments associated with the project. These are items that the applicant is required to revise or submit, and the kind of the uh timeline for each, and includes the city engineer's comment. With this particular project, an alternative urban area-wide review, that is an environmental review, was completed for the subject site. That AR AUAR actually reviewed two different development proposals. One is a data center campus similar to what is being proposed, and there is an adoptive mitigation plan associated with that AUAR, the applicants and the application materials and the development are required to comply with this mitigation. And then finally, as I mentioned, site plan review and building permit review are two additional checks on this development. With that, Mr. Chair, I'm going to turn it over to City Planner Steve Grippin to go through the application information in Montag. As Angela laid out for you, the uh the ordinance background, how it was developed and uh the process that you went through, a little bit of uh structure around what you're being asked to consider tonight and how you think about it in the context of the other planning documents that exist in the community and the community and how they apply to this particular application in specific detail the ordinance as you recall requires a series of approval requirements and a series of former standards. Those are all laid out in the zoning orders that was adopted earlier this year. And uh the staff report walks through those for you with some staff comment.

Related to how the applicant has complied with those or how staff has recommended uh modifications or additions that need to be made uh to get final compliance. I'm going to walk through those uh in general with you tonight. Um little bit of uh a different format than the way the staff report reads, but uh summarized so you can get a feeling for how those uh requirements apply, and then uh how they relate to the findings of fact that uh are provided as part of uh staff review, and one of the uh relevant aspects of that is to understand uh the place which chooses to go forward with the recognition of approval, you'll uh you are being asked to consider resolutions and include findings of fact. Those are the basic um uh reasons uh by which planning commission uh chooses to make a decision. Uh the uh recommendations are uh in front of you and resolutions for each of the uh various requirements are in front of you, and uh we'll talk a little bit about that as we get uh to the end of the presentation, but just so you're where um how the uh discussion uh is uh arranged for today's uh review. So the first thing uh uh is really think about copies of planning as Angel pointed out. That's our guiding uh land use policy document. And what the uh kind of right off the bat, the uh ordinance requires that uh any land that's uh being considered for uh data center project has to be uh guided for um light industrial parts zone um land uses and uh in this in this fact uh in this case the uh land is in fact guided for that uh under the uh 2040 plan. The entire uh 500 and uh some acres is guided that way, and we'll talk a little bit about how that uh coordinates with the zoning plan as well. Um data centers are allowed in this designation, subject to uh adoption of the appropriate ordinances that apply. The application that's been submitted uh provides for uses within the site that are consistent with the DCPUD ordinance. That's basically a data center or a data center campus and associated accessory and permanent uses uh that flow with that. Um of the things that uh uh is important to be aware of the structure of the uh data center zoning district um knowledge is that uh the uh impacts, potential impacts of a of the data center are gonna flow outward to the uh surrounding public infrastructure and the uh and the neighboring land usage around that. So the structure of the ordinance is to minimize uh those impacts uh outside of the developable area of the property, usually defined by uh the setbacks that are listed in the code. Those setbacks flex a little bit depending on both what's happening inside the development area and what's happening outside. So we'll talk a little bit about that tonight as well. But as a basic land use principle, the data center campus is an allowed use in this uh light industrial park uh land use category and meets that criterion that uh is the initial factor for the land for the uh zoning ordinance. Once it's up to meet applicable conditions, the application plans become part of the city's approval of the ordinance for the site and the platform and the conditions from the post three uh decisions that we'll be looking at tonight. And the reason that's relevant is that um the applicant has provided proposal uh to uh effect this data center project. Code requires certain specific things as minimums and pointed that out. Uh some of those uh in the application actually exceed the minimums. And one of the things that uh staff is proposing to you as part of our recommendation is that if adopted, the applicants uh uh meeting or exceeding our code requirements are so we're looking at both what the ordinance requires, but also what the applicant uh provided as a uh repertoire request. And to the extent that uh the buildable area provides for additional setback or other standards, those would get built into the uh ordinance that would be effective on this project. So what you see uh in the application if approved is what would happen on the land. Uh they would not have the flexibility then to move back out uh to a greater setback or or other uh other design future. The conditions are intended to support ordinance compliance, mitigate impacts. Those conditions are um applied as part of the conditional use limit, and they're also uh relevant to the uh findings that you'll make uh as you consider the rezoning ordinances and the requirements of that code.

So supporting those ideas, the staff has suggested that as a finding, the DCPUD rezoning is consistent with the Monticello Vision and Plan Land Use designation of light industrial park. So that is a uh checkbox uh criterion met. And then, secondly, the Edmondson Business Center, in meeting the requirements of the city's comprehensive plan and land use regulations, will operate in a manner that requires results in a minimal negative impact of residential land and a subject property. That's the design of the ordinance, including mitigation of the potential noise lights, traffic, water supply, and all the other factors that are addressed by the ordinance and limited uh under the uh under the code. So, kind of some of the initial findings here uh uh match the land use discussion. The applicant proposes a series of public infrastructure improvements and to develop this parcel, uh, there are uh an extensive list. As Angela pointed out, one of the functional uh aspects of the code when it was adopted was that uh the data center developments have to stand on their own. They can't rely on city provision of uh particular uh improvements or city paying for improvements that are necessary for the project. The annexation agreement uh will require that the applicant pay for all costs associated with the development and operation of the project, including municipal utilities, transportation, and any other public services or infrastructure necessary to support the um rezoning and then uh the uh subsequent project. Uh specific timelines are assigned by the city for your securities and escroves. So, not only do uh we build those into any resolution of approval, but just the agreements require that the applicant provide financial securities to ensure that uh those projects be built, designed anyway in the way that uh this is finally here on this page, all public improvement plans are prepared as the applicants expensive the applicant to build those projects and provide the project uh whether publicly or privately installed. So there's a uh uh mix of projects that are required to service projects. Some of those surround the project immediately roadway infrastructure, but some of them are uh off-site just to get fully through the site means that the project, those plans and the construction of those projects uh are part of the uh requirements that are imposed on any approval might consider. The applicants narrative confirms their responsibility and estimated costs to fund those off-site improvements necessary to site. There are sanitary sewer uh improvements, water main improvements, building sets from Chelsea Road along Fallon Avenue, 85th Street, and the site. Uh the uh extent of improvements along Callon Avenue also has a complete reconstruction of that local. Those are offset improvements that would be attributable to this project as well. The uh uh plans with uh uh construction of a new roundabout school boulevard and down avenue that would uh um match the series of roundabouts along school boulevard local uh setting on the east and then Edmondson on the west. Um reconstruction of Fallon Avenue, as I mentioned, to an urban section. That would also include trails from Chelsea Road to 85th Street, right away required by the city engineer in Mindat to serve required uh serve as required for future roundabouts at the intersection of 85th and highway 25. That's currently controlled by a signal and the intersection of 85th Street and Edmondson Avenue, and then intersection control evaluation, which is a um uh amend that requirement for any time you touch a highway and understand how that intersection would get to that um design, the plans for that and that that process would all also be funded at applicants' cost. All of these are secured by the annexation agreement. So as a condition of annexation, the city would enter into an agreement with the applicant and uh secure those projects uh that are defined by that agreement, both uh structurally, administratively as well as financially. Other public uh infrastructure improvements, the applicant has proposed the necessary improvements adjacent to the site and to serve areas beyond the site. One of the aspects of the code is that not just do you give utilities to the property, but like with any subdivision, we want to make sure that.

Once a site is developed with city utilities, it can be connected to those utilities and roadways can be connected to future development as the site future development would expand beyond that property. The property, the project is designed to accommodate that. That includes right-of-way and construction of Davidson Avenue Northeast as a connage road connecting from its current terminus to 85th Street. That is a reliever road to Trump Highway 25. It includes utility extensions with right-away to serve parcels to the south along Highway 25. It also includes right-of-way and construction of 85th Street along the limits of the plat, so from Edmondson to Highway 25. 85th Street is partially completed, but this project would complete those urban section improvements. Right away in construction of Edmondson along the east boundary of the plat. The east side of the plat is bounded by Edmondson. That's our county road in that location. So the county has said they would expect that reconstruction to their rural standard and not an urban standard. But that's the county's requirement on Edmondson and the east side. And then finally, right-away or outbot for public utility extensions between outlaws C and D at a width of 150 feet. And if you recall the zoning plan that was shown the uh between the yellow outlots, there was a white right-of-way or outbot extending between that. That would be a utility corridor from Edmondson to Davidson on the on the west. And that would also then be approved as a trail along that area. That's right on the north side of that wetland, soon to be classified as a lake. Finally, these are all secured by subdivision development contract at the time of the final flat. So we have an annexation agreement that has its own requirements and securities. And then there's a development agreement that goes along with the plat that has its expectations requirements and securities. All of these would happen at the time of final flight. The plant and improvements themselves. The preliminary plant document illustrates right-away for adjacent streets and lock configuration. So the applicant has provided a plat, a proposed plant that shows those right-of-way increase improvements and additional right-of-way requirements. They've submitted utility plans and narrative detail with the conceptual utility extensions and cost. This map shows utility extensions from the north along Fallon Avenue, then along 85th Street, and then two and surrounding the project area. And then detailed construction plans for on-site and adjacent plans are also required with the final plan. Traffic is another infrastructure component of this project. The applicant has completed completed a traffic study for the requirements of the city engineer. The plan provides for necessary right-of-way, as I said, uh on various streets. Subject comments of the engineers report that represents roadway network upgrades for Fallon, 85th Street, Edmondson and Davidson. Roadway improvements include additional pathway along one or both sides of each of those streets. Our code requires our subdivision ordinance actually imposes a requirement for pathway on the both sides of collectors and arterials. One is limited to substation access, and then there would be a requirement for a construction manager plan as well. Public water and sewer impacts. So the applicant has made a proposal in their narrative to cap their expectations at these are within the ability of the city to survey without uh significant um impact just to identify those in every average annual ride management gallons per day. A couple of exceptions here eight as landscape status on the property, and then for water recharge.

For what the applicant has proposed to be a closed loop cooling system. So new water would not be used for day-to-day cooling of the facilities and a closed facility and only the initial charge of that system will be required. And then occasionally after several years, periodically recharge of that system. Loop system demand can't exceed any environmental review. Staff is recommended that ensure that we go on and go forward that we don't enter that situation where a future user asks for more water than the applicant has uh made their coverage. There's also an average annual wastewater discharge time to exceed 75,000 gallons per day. Um this water from the closed water recharge is not allowed to be discharged into the municipal system, and the applicant will have the plan for disposal of cooling system water that's required before connection to the system. So that means an additional uh plan that would be provided as part of the uh uh thresholds included uh in the area included in the proposed site ordinance, uh which we have uh uh labeled the PBCD. So sorry for all the uh the letters here, but it's slightly easier than uh staying the entire word. So PBC trying to short it, I guess. So findings uh that uh are relevant to the infrastructure discussion. Uh the business center will expand public infrastructure at the applicant's cost, benefiting existing taxpayers, and facilitating future growth in areas that would otherwise be eliminated by lack of infrastructure. So uh that's our initial finding. Secondly, the Edmundson Business Center based on limitations of public water usage to 75,000 gallons uh per day based on an annual average, and public wastewater treatment of 35,000 gallons per day based on annual average, will create similar or lower demand on these systems than comparable industrial projects uh that would otherwise be eligible land uses on the subject property. So this is an important point. 75,000 gallons per day sounds like a big number for those of us who aren't engineers, we don't know how that relates. In fact, uh it would be less than what we might expect a typical industrial user on that property to uh uh to uh to use and uh consum. Third finding, the Edmundson Business Center will provide necessary multimodal transportation improvements to serve the site and benefit of the uh and to the benefit of the community's long-term growth. Uh multimodal in this case, uh automobiles, but also uh a significant um uh network of trails and pathways that support uh bicycling and pedestrian uh routes around uh and to the property. Uh finally, uh findings on this point, uh the Edmundson Bus Center will create only nominal impacts on the city's public services, including municipal water, sanitary sewer, wastewater treatment, streets, parks, and trails, or other services. In fact, uh the facility uh expands those facilities at the uh applicant's cost. Electrical power is always an issue for a data center discussion, and they're um like a lot of these, there are plenty of bad examples around the country. Um the uh uh city took pains uh when they developed the ordinance to address uh electrical power supply to the best that we can. Obviously, it's a uh uh privately provided uh service and is regulated by the state with the public utilities commission. But we add it into our ordinance requirements to ensure that the applicant has made those steps and that Excel in this case is uh uh being able to validate that the project will not have impacts on uh uh negative impacts on surrounding property owners or community members, uh, and is compliant with state law, which also uh requires that those costs uh contributable data centers are paid by those projects. So, first of all, required system impact study has been completed. Uh, this is a study that's done by ACL. Determined that services the site is available. Silver society is in progress. That will detail specific transmission. The thing we don't know yet is where the transmission coordinates will go uh through or to this site. Uh that is uh five days. The power substation is proposed to be located within the DCC right now that substance.

Is shown on the east boundary of the um the shore line later this place. Set back from uh Edmondson uh probably
