Residential Rental 
Registration Program 
REGISTER YOUR RENTAL 
PROPERTY AND PAY ONLINE AT: 
www.cityofroseville.com/epermits 
Need More Information? 
Call the Rental Registration Line 
• 651-792-7013
Go Online 
• www.cityofroseville.com/rentalregistration
• Register and pay online at:
www.cityofroseville.com/epermits
Visit us in the Community Development 
• Roseville City Hall—2660 Civic Center Drive,
Roseville, MN 55113
Thank You  
for making Roseville 
a desirable place to  
live, work, and play!  
Program Background 
On March 17, 2008, the City of Roseville adopted an ordi-
nance requiring property owners who rent property with 
1 to 4 units to register their units with the City on an an-
nual basis.  The Rental Registration Program was adopted, 
in part, based on the recommendations of Imagine Rose-
ville 2025 Housing Goals (Goal 6.C.2) , which recommend-
ed stronger codes for rental properties of 4 or fewer units.  
The registration program was also put in place to provide 
a way to identify and quantify rental units within the City 
and to make sure it is properly maintained.   
In 2015, the ordinance was reviewed to see if it was  im-
plemented as intended and having the desired effect.  The 
review concluded the program is effective overall.  The 
following changes were adopted in 2016, 2017, 2018, 
2021:   
• Property owners must post their registration certifi-
cate in the rental unit. 
• A late fee will now apply to renewals that are more 
than 30 days late.
• Property owners renting to relatives no longer need 
to notarize the affidavit of exemption.
• All registrations  will expire 365 days from date of 
issuance.
Short Term Rental License (examples: 
VRBO, AirBnB) 
Short Term Rentals (VRBO, AirBnB,etc) are required to 
be licensed through the City of Roseville. See infor-
mation relating to Short Term Rental on the City Website 
or contact City Staff at 651-792-7013
Community Development Department 
Rental Registration 
2660 Civic Center Drive   
Roseville, MN  55113 
www.cityofroseville.com/rentalregistration 
Phone: 651-792-7013 
E-mail: rentalhousing@cityofroseville.com
Register and pay online at:  
www.cityofroseville.com/epermits 
REGISTER YOUR RENTAL PROPERTY 
AND PAY ONLINE AT: 
www.cityofroseville.com/epermits 
What type of property must be registered? 
A property owner who rents property as living 
quarters is required to register. The following types 
of rental units must be registered:    
• Single-family Dwellings
• Duplexes
• Triplexes
• Fourplexes
• Townhome units
• Twinhomes
• Condo units
• Short Term Rentals (examples: VRBO, AirBnB)
See information relating to Short Term Rental on the City
Website or contact City Staff at 651-792-7013
What type of property is NOT required to be 
registered? 
The following properties are exempt from 
registration: 
• Property occupied by the owner with rooms
rented to unrelated boarders
• Rental Buildings with more than 4 units**
• Hotels/Motels with daily rental units
• On-campus College Housing
• Hospital/Nursing Home Units
**Rentals with more than 4 units must be licensed by the 
City of Roseville Fire Department. Call 651-792-7340 
What type of properties are exempt from 
the fee but must register? 
• Properties in which all renters are related to
property owner as a parent, child, sibling, step-
parent, step-child, grand-parent, grandchild,
step-grandparent, or step-grandchild. (Owner
must file an affidavit with the City attesting to this.)
• Group Homes/Home & Community Based
Services  Licensed by the State of MN. (Owner
must include license number on the registration
form.)
How do I license as a Short Term Rental 
(VRBO, AirBnB, etc)? 
Short Term Rentals (VRBO, AirBnB,etc) are required to be 
licensed through the City of Roseville. See information relating 
to Short Term Rental on the City Website or contact City Staff 
at 651-792-7013
How many renters can I have? 
City ordinance allows a maximum of 1 FAMILY or  4 
UNRELATED ADULTS to occupy a single-family 
rental unit.   
What if I add renters after I register? 
Property owners must notify the City of any 
changes in occupancy within 30 days of the change. 
What happens if I sell my rental property? 
Registrations are non-transferable. Once the 
property is sold, the new owners must apply for a 
new registration within 30 days of the sale.   
How often do I register a rental property? 
Annually—the registration period begins at the time 
you complete and pay your registration fee and 
expires one year after your registration date. 
What is the fee? 
The annual fee is $46 per rental unit .  This fee can
be paid online at 
www.cityofroseville.com/epermits  
Is there a penalty for  late registration? 
Yes.  Property owners renewing a registration must 
renew by your registration expiration date.  
Renewals received 30 days after your expiration 
date will be charged a penalty of $42. Fee would be 
$46.00 + late penalty of $42.00 = $88.00
Property owners who are registering a property for 
the first time must apply for and register the 
property prior to its conversion.   
Residential Rental Property Registration
Does the City inspect my rental property? 
No, an interior inspection is not required. The City 
will do a walk-by inspection as part of its 
Neighborhood Enhancement Program.   
How can I get a Registration Form and/or 
an Affidavit of Exemption?  
• Register your property and follow instructions
regarding the Affidavit of Exemption at:
www.cityofroseville.com/epermits
• Stop by the Community Development Dept.
and pick up a form.
• Call 651-792-7013 and ask for the form to be
mailed to you
I have a rental building that has more than 
4 units.  What should I do?  
Rental buildings with more than 4 units must be 
licensed by the City of Roseville. Please call the 
City of Roseville Fire Department at 651-792-7340 
for more about rental licensing.     
Need to Register?  
• Register and pay online at:
www.cityofroseville.com/epermits
• OR Download the Rental Registration form at 
www.cityofRoseville.com/rentalregistration, 
complete it (1 form per unit),  and mail to:
Rental Registration 
City of Roseville 
2660 Civic Center Drive 
Roseville, MN  55113 