

City of Roseville
ORDINANCE NO. 1657

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING

TITLE 9 CHAPTER 909

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 9, SECTION 909 OF THE
ROSEVILLE CITY CODE IN ORDER TO RESTART ISSUANCE OF SHORT TERM RENTAL LICENSES AND ESTABLISH REGULATIONS RELATED TO DISTANCE, NOTICE TO NEIGHBORING PROPERTIES, AND MAINTENANCE OF CERTAIN RECORDS.

THE CITY OF ROSEVILLE ORDAINS:

SECTION 1:  Title 9 Section 909.02 of the Roseville City Code is amended to read as follows:

909.02: DEFINITIONS: 
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section: 
City: The City of Roseville, or the person or entity designated by the City to administer and enforce this Chapter. 
Family: Shall mean one of the following: (City Code Section 1001.10) 
Any group of people living together as a single housekeeping unit, all of whom are related by blood, marriage, or adoption plus children who are under foster care; or 
Up to four people not so related; or 
Any group of people, if no more than two adult members function as the heads of the household group and the remaining members are dependent upon them for care and direction due to age, physical disability, a mental incompetency, or for other reasons; or 
Any individual, who is the owner, living and maintaining a common household and using a common cooking and kitchen facility. 
Local Agent: Owner’s representative who resides in any of the following Minnesota counties: Anoka, Carver, Dakota, Hennepin, Ramsey, Scott, or Washington, and is authorized by the owner to make or order repairs or services for the property if in violation of the City or State Codes. 
Owner: A person, agent, firm, or corporation having a legal or equitable interest in the property. In any corporation or partnership, the term owner includes general partners and corporate officers. 
Person: Includes individual, as well as, business entities, whether one or more. 
Rent: Includes money or services in exchange for occupation of the unit. 
Short-Term Rental: A non-owner-occupied dwelling unit rented for a period of thirty (30) consecutive days or less. Rentals less than may not be made more often than one every seven (7) consecutive days are prohibited between October 1st and May 1st and rentals less than may not be made more often than one every ten (10) consecutive days are prohibited between May 1st and October 1st. The use of recreational vehicles, campers or other similar vehicles as rentals shall be prohibited. Short-term rental periods of up to from eight (8) to thirty (30) consecutive days require a license under this Chapter. Rental periods for more than for thirty (30) days require one of the following: a Lodging license with an extended stay permit under City Code Chapter 317; registration as a rental property under City Code Chapter 907; or a Rental License under City Code Chapter 908. 
Unit: All or a portion of a residential property that is arranged, designed, used, or intended to be used as separate living quarters and which is leased to an individual or group. (Ord 1596, 2-8-2021)
SECTION 2:  Title 9 Section 909.03 of the Roseville City Code is amended to read as follows:

909.03: LICENSE REQUIRED: 

It shall be unlawful for any person to hereafter occupy, allow to be occupied, or let to another person for occupancy any residential property within the City for which an application for without a short-term rental license has not been properly made, filed, and issued by the City or after the time that a license is suspended or revoked. Applications for licensure shall be as required by Chapter 301 of City Code, and shall be made upon forms furnished by the City for such purpose and shall specifically require the following minimum information: 

Name, street address, email and phone number of the property owner.

The name, street address, email and phone number(s), of a local agent authorized to make or order repairs or services for the property, if in violation of City or State Codes, if the person is different than the owner. 

The street address of the short-term rental property. 

The type of units within the rental property (single family, twin-home, townhome, condo, duplex, triplex or fourplex). 

The number of bedrooms in the unit. 
6. Certification and attestation that the maximum occupancy per unit is either 4 or less unrelated adults or one family pursuant to Roseville City Codes 906.06 and 1001.10. 

B.No license will be issued to any property that is within 500 feet of another property holding a license under this Chapter. Properties holding a license under this Chapter on January 1, 2024 are not subject to this restriction.

SECTION 3:  Title 9 Section 909.04 of the Roseville City Code is amended to read as follows:

909.04: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE:
 
A. Term: All licenses issued under this Chapter are effective upon issuance and shall expire one year (365 days) from date of issuance. All required renewal license application materials shall be received and submitted prior to the expiration date. 

B. Late fee: Any renewal license applications submitted after expiration will be considered late and subject to fee penalties. 

C. Violation: Any license not renewed after expiration, that continues short-term rentals in the property, will be considered a violation of this ordination. Renters will not be allowed to occupy a property if the renewal license is not issued within 5 days after expiration.  

SECTION 3:  Title 9 Section 909.05 of the Roseville City Code is amended to read as follows:

909.05: FEES, LODGING TAX:

A. There shall be a license fee and late renewal fee as established by the City Fee Schedule in Section 314.05. All fees and fines shall be charged to and payable by the property owner. 

B. Pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, section 469.190, local lodging taxes shall be collected on all rentals less than 30 days in length in accordance with Chapter 312 of the City Code. Payment must be made monthly to the City’s finance department on forms provided by the City.

C. Short-Term Rentals in violation of this ordinance may be subject to license suspension or revocation and administrative fines, in addition to any other fees or penalties per Section 909.10 or other applicable sections of City Code. (Ord 1596, 2-8-2021) 
SECTION 4:  Title 9 Section 909.06 of the Roseville City Code is amended to read as follows:

909.06: MANNER OF LICENSURE: 

A. An owner who has an existing Short-Term Rental property as defined by this Chapter that is licensed under the requirements of City Code Chapter 909, may continue to operate until expiration of such license. Following the effective date of this Chapter, no further licenses will be issued, no change in occupancy type will be approved, and no transfer or renewal of license will be permitted. 

A. An owner of a property that after the effective date of this Chapter wishes to convert the property into a Short-Term Rental property, shall apply for and license the property prior to its conversion. 

B. If there is a change in the type of occupancy from the type stated on the license form, an amended license form shall be filed within 30 days of the change. 

C. When a previously licensed property is sold, the new owner, if continuing to offer Short-Term Rental, shall apply for a license within 30 days of the sale and may not allow occupancy as a short term rental until a license has been obtained. 

D. Valid Short-term rental license holders shall not be required to register said rental per Chapter 907 if they enter into rental lease periods in excess of thirty (30) consecutive days. 

E. The City Manager may administratively deny a license under this Chapter if the property has been issued fines for repeat nuisance violations per City Code Section 511. 

F. If a person is found to have engaged in rentals that require a license under this Chapter, but no license has been obtained, upon application for licensure said license shall not become effective for 90 days. 

SECTION5:  Title 9 Section 909.07 of the Roseville City Code is amended to read as follows: 

909.07 NOTICE TO RENTER, REQUIREMENT TO POST, NOTICE TO NEIGHBORING PROPERTIES: 
A.The owner or its agent must post, in accordance with the instructions provided by the City, in each Short-Term Rental unit a current copy of the Short-term Rental License provided by the City upon issuance of license. This license shall specifically include the following minimum information: 
The street address of the registered property; and 

The name, street address, email address(es) and telephone number(s) of the owner, the local agent or both as applicable; and 

The expiration date of the license. 

The owner or its agent must post in each Short-Term Rental unit a current copy of Roseville City Code Sections 405, Noise Control, 407, Nuisances, and 602, Stopping, Standing and Parking or other form as approved by the City.

Upon issuance of license and annual renewal of the license, within ten (10) days of City Council Approval, the owner or its agent must notify all residential properties of one to four units within 300 feet, with a copy to the City, of the following: 

1.The statement: “The property located at (insert address) obtained a Short Term Rental License from the City of Roseville on (insert date). As a requirement of the license, notification must be provided to property owners within 300 feet so that the license holder’s contact information can be provided should any questions or concerns arise.”;
2.The address of the licensed property and what type of property is being used for Short Term rental (single family home, twin-home, townhome, condo, apartment, duplex, triples, or fourplex; 
3.The name, email address and telephone number of the owner and/or local agent responsible for the Short Term Rental property; and
4.A copy of the license issued by the City.
SECTION 6:  Title 9 Section 909.08 of the Roseville City Code is amended to read as follows:

909.08 EXEMPTIONS: 
Individual sleeping rooms within an otherwise owner-occupied residence. 
Rentals where the owner is present for the duration of the rental. 
Rentals that exist solely due to “rent-back” provision of property sales. 
Month-to-month rental leases that originated from a lease period in excess of thirty (30) consecutive days. 
Accessory Dwelling Units permitted under Title 10, Zoning, of the City Code when said Accessory Dwelling Unit is not detached from the principal dwelling unit. 
Hotels, motels and/or similar Lodging establishments licensed under City Code Chapter 317. 

SECTION 7: Title 9 Section 909.09 of the Roseville City Code is amended to read as follows:

909.09: LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION: 

A Short-Term Rental license may be revoked or suspended by the City Council at any time under the provisions of this chapter, or Chapter 301 Section 301.09, for grounds including, but not limited to, the following: 

1. Two or more confirmed violations of this section within 180 days, except for a single violation as outlined in paragraph B of this section. 

2. False or misleading information given or provided in connection with a license application. 

3. Failure to maintain the residential rental property in a manner that meets pertinent provisions of City Code including, but not limited to, Code Chapters 407 and 906. 

4. Violations committed or permitted by the owner or the owner’s agent, or committed or permitted by the tenant or the tenant’s guests or agents, of any rules, codes, statutes and ordinances relating to, pertaining to, or governing the premises including, but not limited to, the following: 

a. Minn. Stat. 609.75 through 609.76, which prohibit gambling; 
b. Minn. Stat. 609.321 through 609.324, which prohibit prostitution and acts relating thereto; 

c. Minn. Stat. 152.01 through 152.025 and 152.027, subds. 1 and 2, which prohibit the unlawful sale or possession of controlled substances; 

d. Minn. Stat. 340A.401, which regulates the unlawful sale of alcoholic beverages; 

e. Minn. Stat. 609.33, which prohibits owning, leasing, operating, managing, maintaining, or conducting a disorderly house, or inviting or attempting to invite others to visit or remain in a disorderly house; 

f. Minn. Stat. 97B.021, 97B.045, 609.66 through 609.67 and 624.712 through 624.716 and Chapter 103 of the City Code, which prohibit the unlawful possession, transportation, sale or use of weapon; 

g. Minn. Stat. 609.72, which prohibits disorderly conduct; 

h. Minn. Stat. 609.221, 609.222, 609.223, 609.2231 and 609.224, regarding assaults in the first, second, third, fourth and fifth degree. 

i. Roseville City Code Sections: 407, prohibiting public nuisances, 405, noise control, 511, repeat nuisance, 906, property maintenance, 1004 and 1005, land use and 1018, parking. 

5.Failure to provide monthly records as required by Section 909.12(A).

B. Upon recommendation by the Chief of Police, the City Manager is authorized to administratively suspend a license after a single violation that reasonably posed or poses a threat to public safety. 

C. License suspension shall be for a term not less than: 180 days for the first suspension and 365 days for the second suspension. Depending on the gravity of the offense, the Council may impose longer suspension timeframes than noted in this paragraph. 

D. License revocation shall be considered by the City Council when violations occur under paragraph A or B of this section and/or when two prior suspensions occurred under the same licensee. 

E. In order to reinstate a suspended license, the applicant shall apply following the same process as if applying for a new Short-Term Rental license. Reinstatements following suspension will only be considered when the circumstances leading to the suspension have been remedied, the suspension penalty imposed by the City Council has been satisfied, the licensee has submitted a Mitigation Plan outlining policies and procedures to prevent violations from occurring in the future, and upon City Council approval. Reinstatement after suspension may be denied by the City Council if the licensee cannot satisfactorily meet the requirements in this paragraph. 

F. If a license is revoked, reinstatement will not be considered. may only be considered by the City Council if there is an ownership change. Ownership change to a family member of the prior owner, or entity affiliated with the prior owner shall not constitute compliance with this requirement. 

G. Repeat Nuisance Service Call fees shall be applied pursuant to City Code Section 511. (Ord 1596, 2-8-2021) 

SECTION 8:  Title 9 Section 909.10 of the Roseville City Code is amended to read as follows:

909.10: VIOLATION: 

A. Misdemeanor: Any person who maintains a short-term rental property without having the property licensed, or after the short-term rental license for the property has been revoked, or who permits new occupancy in violation of Section 909 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, is subject to a fine and imprisonment as prescribed by state law. Each day each violation continues or exists, constitutes a separate offense. 

B. Administrative fee: In addition to, or in lieu of, charging a misdemeanor, the City may impose administrative fees in an amount set in the City Fee Schedule. Each day each violation continues or exists, constitutes a separate offense. 

1. Upon the failure to pay an administrative fee, the City may post the dwelling unit as illegal for occupancy as a short-term rental. 

C. Prohibited occupancy: Pursuant to 909.10.B.1, the dwelling unit or portion of, may not be occupied by anyone other than the primary homestead owner and that person’s immediate family until: 

1. The administrative fee has been paid; and 

2. A short-term rental license is obtained or the City is satisfied that the dwelling unit will not be used as a short-term rental dwelling unit; and 

3. Completion of any abatement, written compliance order, legal action from a citation or action per City Code Sections 407 and 906. (Ord 1596, 2-8- 2021) 

SECTION 9:  Title 9 Section 909.11 of the Roseville City Code is amended to read as follows:

909.11: APPEALS: 
A.An Appeal pertaining to any violation, suspension, or revocation decision addressed in this Chapter may be filed by a short-term rental property owner. 
The appeal shall be submitted to the City Manager within ten (10) calendar days after the making of the order or decision being appealed. 
The appeal shall state the specific grounds upon which the appeal is made. 
The appeal shall be accompanied by the fee set forth in Chapter 314. 
B.When an appeal is filed, a public meeting regarding the matter shall be held before the City Council, acting as the Board of Adjustments and Appeals, at a regular meeting held within thirty (30) calendar days of the receipt of the appeal. The Board of Adjustments and Appeals may consider any of the evidence that had previously been considered as part of the formal action that is the subject of the appeal. New or additional information from the appealing applicant(s) may be considered by the Board of Adjustments and Appeals at its sole discretion if that information serves to clarify information previously considered by the Chief of Police and/or Community Development Director. 
C.Appeals filed under this section shall require notification to properties within 350 300 feet of the subject property. (Ord 1596, 2-8-2021)
SECTION 10:  Title 9 Section 909.12 of the Roseville City Code is amended to read as follows:

909.12: MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS: 
Maintenance of Records. License holder shall keep a register of persons who rent the licensed premises. The record is a written documentation of the dates and duration of rentals. The record may be maintained electronically, in a book, or on cards. If maintained electronically, the record shall be printable. A copy of the register must be submitted by the license holder with submission of the monthly lodging tax.
All records, files and documents pertaining to the Short-Term Rental License Program shall be maintained in the office of the City and made available to the public as allowed or required by applicable laws, rules, codes, statutes or ordinances. (Ord 1596, 2-8-2021)
SECTION 11:  Effective date.  This ordinance shall take effect upon its passage and publication.

Passed by the City Council of the City of Roseville this 12th day of February 2024.


Signatures as follows on separate page:

Ordinance – AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 9, SECTION 909 OF THE
ROSEVILLE CITY CODE IN ORDER TO STOP ISSUSSUANCE OF NEW 


SHORT TERM RENTAL LICENSES


(SEAL)


CITY OF ROSEVILLE


BY: ____________________________
                                                  Daniel J. Roe, Mayor

ATTEST:


__________________________________
Patrick Trudgeon, City Manager


