 
 
Underline reflects new language 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 1596 
 
AN ORDINANCE CREATING A NEW CHAPTER 909  
TO THE ROSEVILLE CITY CODE,  
LICENSING OF SHORT-TERM RENTALS 
 
The City Council of the City of Roseville does ordain: 
 
Section One.  Licensing of Short-Term Rentals.  A new Chapter 909 is inserted into City Code 
that outlines the following requirements for the licensing of Short-Term Rentals. 
 
LICENSING OF SHORT-TERM RENTALS  
 
SECTION:  
909.01: Purpose  
909.02: Definitions  
909.03: License Required  
909.04: Expiration of License 
909.05: Fees, Lodging tax  
909.06: Manner of Licensure  
909.07: Notice to Guest(s), Requirement to Post  
909.08: Exemptions  
909.09: License Suspensions and Revocation  
909.10: Violation  
909.11: Appeals  
909.12: Maintenance of Records  
909.13: Authority  
909.14: Applicable Laws  
909.15: Rules, Policies and Procedures  
909.16: No Warranty by the City  
909.17: Severability  
 
909.01: PURPOSE:  
 
The purpose of this Section is to ensure that the non-owner-occupied short-term rentals of dwelling 
units is conducted, operated, and maintained so as not to become a nuisance to the surrounding 
neighborhood or an influence that fosters blight and deterior ation or  creates a disincentive to 
reinvest in the community. The operation of a short -term rental property is a business enterprise 
that entails responsibilities required of the owner, local agent, and guests. 
909.02:  DEFINITIONS: 
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them 
in this section: 
A. City: The City of Roseville, or the person or entity designated by the City to administer 
 
 
Underline reflects new language 
 
and enforce this Chapter. 
B. Family: Shall mean one of the following: (City Code Section 1001.10) 
1. Any group of people living together as a single housekeeping unit, all of whom are 
related by blood, marriage, or adoption plus children who are under foster care; or 
2. Up to four people not so related; or 
3. Any group of people, if no more than two adult members function as the heads of 
the household group and the remaining members are dependent upon them for care 
and direction due to age, physical disability, a mental incompetency, or for other 
reasons; or 
4. Any individual, who is the owner, living and maintaining a common household and 
using a common cooking and kitchen facility.  
C. Local Agent:  Owner’s representative who resides in any of the following Minnesota 
counties:  Anoka, Carver, Dakota, Hennepin, Ramsey, Scott, or Washington, and is 
authorized by the owner to make or order repairs or services for the property if in violation 
of the City or State Codes. 
D. Owner: A person, agent, firm, or corporation having a legal or equitable interest in the 
property.  In any corporation or partnership, the term owner includes general partners and 
corporate officers.   
E. Person: Includes individual, as well as, business entities, whether one or more. 
F. Rent: Includes money or services in exchange for occupation of the unit. 
G. Short-Term Rental: A non-owner-occupied dwelling unit rented for a period of thirty (30) 
consecutive days  or less .  Rentals less than seven (7 ) consecutive days are prohibited  
between October 1 st and May 1 st and rentals less than ten (10) consecutive days are 
prohibited between May 1st and October 1st. The use of recreational vehicles, campers or 
other similar vehicles as rentals shall be prohibited .  Short-term rental periods from eight 
(8) to thirty (30) consecutive days require a license under this Chapter. 
H. Unit: All or a portion of a residential property that is arranged, designed, used, or intended 
to be used as separate living quarters and which is leased to an individual or group. 
 
909.03: LICENSE REQUIRED:  
 
      A. It shall be unlawful for any person to  hereafter occupy, allow to be occupied, or let to 
 another person for occupancy  any residential property within the City for which an 
 application for a short -term rental license  has not been properly made and filed with the 
 City or after the time that a  license is suspended or revoked. Applications for licensure  
 shall be as required by Chapter 301 of City Code, and shall be made upon forms 
 furnished by the City for such purpose and shall specifically  require the following 
 minimum information:  
1.  Name, street address, email and phone number of the property owner.  
2.   The name, street address, email and phone number(s), of a local agent authorized 
to make or order repairs or services for the property, if in violation of City or State 
Codes, if the person is different than the owner.  
 3.   The street address of the short-term rental property.  
 4.   The type of units within the rental property (single family, twin-home, townhome, 
         condo, duplex, triplex or fourplex).  
 5.   The number of bedrooms in the unit.  
 
 
Underline reflects new language 
 
 6.    Certification and attestation that the maximum occupancy per unit is either 4 or   
 less unrelated adults or one family  pursuant to Roseville City Codes 906.06 and 
 1001.10.  
 
909.04: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE:  
 
       A.  Term: All licenses issued under this Chapter are effective upon issuance and shall expire 
 one year (365 days) from date of issuance . All required renewal license application 
 materials shall be received and submitted prior to the expiration date.  
       B.  Late fee: Any renewal license applications submitted after expiration will be considered late 
 and subject to fee penalties.  
       C.  Violation: Any license not renewed after expiration, with continued short-term renting of the 
 property, will be considered a violation of this ordination. Renters will not be allowed to 
 occupy a property if the renewal license is not issued within 5 days after expiration.  
 
909.05: FEES, LODGING TAX:  
 
A. There shall be a license fee and late renewal fee as established by the City Fee Schedule in 
Section 314.05.  All fees and fines shall be charged to and payable by the property owner.  
B. Pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, section 469.190, local lodging taxes shall be collected on 
all rentals less than 30 days in length in accordance with Chapter 312 of the City Code. 
C. Short-Term Rentals in violation of this ordinance may be subject to administrative fines , 
in addition to any other fees or penalties per Section 909.10 or other applicable sections of 
City Code.  
 
909.06: MANNER OF LICENSURE:  
 
A. An owner who has an existing Short-Term Rental property as defined by this Chapter that 
is not already licensed  under the requirements of City Code Chapter 90 9, must apply for 
licensure pursuant to this Chapter, no later than 30 days following the effective date of this 
Chapter.  
B. An owner of a  property that after the effective date of this Chapter wishes to convert the 
property into a Short-Term Rental property, shall apply for and license  the property prior 
to its conversion.  
C. If there is a change in the type of occupancy from the type stated on the license form, an 
amended license form shall be filed within 30 days of the change.  
D. When a previously licensed property is sold, the new owner , if continuing to offer S hort-
Term Rental, shall apply for a license within 30 days of the sale. 
E. Valid Short-term rental license holders shall not be required to register said rental per 
Chapter 907 if they enter into rental lease periods in excess of thirty (30) consecutive days. 
F. The City Manager may administratively deny a license under this Chapter if the property 
has been issued fines for repeat nuisance violations per City Code Section 511. 
G. If a person is found to have engaged in rentals that require a license under this Chapter, but 
no license has been obtained, upon application for licensure said license shall not become 
effective for 90 days. 
 
 
Underline reflects new language 
 
  
909.07 NOTICE TO RENTER, REQUIREMENT TO POST:  
 
A. The owner or its agent must post, in accordance with the instructions provided by the City, 
in each Short-Term Rental unit a current copy of the Short -term Rental License provided 
by the City upon issuance of license. This license  shall specifically include the following 
minimum information:  
1.  The street address of the registered property; and  
2.  The name, street address, email address(es) and telephone number(s) of  
      the owner, the local agent or both as applicable; and 
3.  The expiration date of the license. 
B. The owner or its agent must post in each Short-Term Rental unit a current copy of Roseville 
City Code Sections 405, Noise Control, 407, Nuisances, and 602, Stopping, Standing and 
Parking. 
 
909.08 EXEMPTIONS:  
 
A. Individual sleeping rooms within an otherwise owner-occupied residence. 
B. Rentals where the owner is present for the duration of the rental. 
C. Rentals that exist solely due to “rent-back” provision of property sales. 
D. Month-to-month rental leases that originated from a l ease period in excess of thirty (30) 
consecutive days. 
E. Accessory Dwelling Units permitted under Title 10, Zoning, of the City Code when said 
Accessory Dwelling Unit is not detached from the principal dwelling unit. 
F. Hotels, motels and/or similar establishments.  
 
909.09: LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION:  
 
A. A Short-Term Rental license may be revoked or suspended by the City Council at any time 
under the provisions of this chapter, or Chapter 301 Section 301.09, for grounds including, 
but not limited to, the following:   
1.     Two or more confirmed violations of this section within 180 days, except for 
a single violation as outlined in paragraph B of this section. 
2.     False or misleading information given or provided in connection with a      
  license application.  
3.  Failure to maintain the residential rental property in a manner that meets 
pertinent provisions of City Code including, but not limited to, Code Chapters 
407 and 906.  
4.     Violations committed or permitted by the owner or the owner’s agent, or 
committed or permitted by the tenant or the tenant’s guests or agents, of any 
rules, codes, statutes and ordinances relating to, pertaining to, or governi ng 
the premises including, but not limited to, the following:  
a. Minn. Stat. 609.75 through 609.76, which prohibit gambling;  
b. Minn. Stat. 609.321 through 609.324, which prohibit prostitution and acts 
relating thereto;  
 
 
Underline reflects new language 
 
c. Minn. Stat. 152.01 through 152.025 and 152.027, subds. 1 and 2, which 
prohibit the unlawful sale or possession of controlled substances;  
d. Minn. Stat. 340A.401, which regulates the unlawful sale of alcoholic 
beverages; 
e. Minn. Stat. 609.33, which prohibits owning, leasing, operating, 
managing, maintaining, or conducting a disorderly house, or inviting or 
attempting to invite others to visit or remain in a disorderly house;  
f. Minn. Stat. 97B.021, 97B.045, 609.66 through 609.67 and 624.712 
through 624.716 and Chapter 103 of the City Code, which prohibit the 
unlawful possession, transportation, sale or use of weapon;  
g. Minn. Stat. 609.72, which prohibits disorderly conduct;  
h. Minn. Stat. 609.221, 609.222, 609.223, 609.2231 and 609.224, regarding 
assaults in the first, second, third, fourth and fifth degree. 
i. Roseville City Code Sections: 407, prohibiting public nuisances, 405, 
noise control, 511, repeat nuisance, 906, property maintenance, 1004 and 
1005, land use and 1018, parking. 
B. Upon recommendation by the Chief of Police, the City Manager is authorized t o 
administratively suspend a license after a single violation that reasonably posed or poses a 
threat to public safety.   
C. License suspension shall be for a term not less than: 180 days for the first suspension and 
365 days for the second suspension.  Depending on the gravity of the offense, the Council 
may impose longer suspension timeframes than noted in this paragraph. 
D. License revocation shall be considered by the City Council when violations occur under 
paragraph A or B of this section and/or  when two pr ior suspensions occurred under the 
same licensee.  
E. In order to reinstate a suspended license, the applicant shall apply following the same 
process as if applying for a new Short -Term Rental license .  Reinstatements following 
suspension will only be considered when the circumstances leading to the suspension have 
been remedied, the suspension penalty imposed by the City Council has been satisfied, the 
licensee has submitted a Mitigation Plan outlinin g policies and procedures to prevent 
violations from occurring in the future, and upon City Council approval.  Reinstatement 
after suspension may be denied by the City Council if the licensee cannot satisfactorily 
meet the requirements in this paragraph. 
F. If a license is revoked, reinstatement may only be considered by the City Council if there 
is an ownership change.   Ownership change to a family member of the prior owner , or 
entity affiliated with the prior owner shall not constitute compliance with this requirement. 
G. Repeat Nuisance Service Call fees shall be applied pursuant to City Code Section 511. 
 
909.10: VIOLATION: 
  
A. Misdemeanor: Any person who maintains a short-term rental property without having the 
property licensed, or after the short-term rental license for the property has been revoked, 
or who permits new occupancy in violation of Section 909 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, 
upon conviction, is subject to a fine and imprisonment as prescribed by state law. Each day 
each violation continues or exists, constitutes a separate offense.  
 
 
Underline reflects new language 
 
B. Administrative fee: In addition to, or in lieu of, charging a misdemeanor, the City may 
impose administrative fees in an amount set in the City Fee Schedule. Each day each 
violation continues or exists, constitutes a separate offense. 
1. Upon the failure to pay an administrative fee, the City may post the dwelling unit 
as illegal for occupancy as a short-term rental.  
C. Prohibited occupancy: Pursuant to 909.10.B.1, the dwelling unit or portion of, may not be 
occupied by anyone other than the primary homestead owner and that person’s immediate 
family until: 
1. The administrative fee has been paid; and 
2. A short-term rental license is obtained or the City is satisfied that the dwelling unit 
will not be used as a short-term rental dwelling unit; and  
3. Completion of any abatement, written compliance order, legal action from a citation 
or action per City Code Sections 407 and 906.  
 
909.11: APPEALS:  
 
A. An Appeal pertaining to any violation, suspension, or revocation decision addressed in this 
Chapter may be filed by a short-term rental property owner.  
1.  The appeal shall be submitted to the City Manager within ten (10) calendar days 
 after the making of the order or decision being appealed.  
2. The appeal shall state the specific grounds upon which the appeal is made.  
3.  The appeal shall be accompanied by the fee set forth in Chapter 314.  
B. When an appeal is filed, a public meeting regarding the matter shall be held before the City 
Council, acting as the Board of Adjustments and Appeals, at a regular meeting held within 
thirty (30) calendar days of the receipt of the appeal. The Board of Adjustments and 
Appeals may consider any of the evidence that had previously been considered as part of 
the formal action that is the subject of the appeal. New or additional information from the 
appealing applicant(s) may be considered by the Board of Adjustments and Appeals at its 
sole discretion if that information se rves to clarify information previously considered by 
the Chief of Police and/or Community Development Director.  
C. Appeals filed under this section shall require notification to properties within 350 feet of 
the subject property. 
 
909.12: MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS:  
 
All records, files and documents pertaining to the Short -Term Rental License Program shall 
be maintained in the office of the City and made available to the public as allowed or required 
by applicable laws, rules, codes, statutes or ordinances.  
 
909.13: AUTHORITY:  
 
Nothing in this Chapter shall prevent the City from acting under any applicable rule, standard, 
statute or ordinance for violations thereof and to seek either injunctive relief or criminal 
prosecution for such violations as therein provided. Nothing contained in this Chapter shall 
prevent the City from seeking injunctive relief against a property owner or designated agent 
 
 
Underline reflects new language 
 
who fails to comply with the terms and conditions of this Chapter including an order 
prohibiting the occupancy of such rental units until violations of this Chapter have been 
remedied by the property owner or designated agent.  
 
909.14: APPLICABLE LAWS:  
 
Short-Term Rental Property shall be subject to all applicable rules, standards, statutes and 
ordinances governing use, maintenance and occupancy of the dwelling or dwelling unit; and 
this Chapter shall not be construed or interpreted to supersede any other such applicable rules, 
standards, statutes or ordinances.  
 
909.15: RULES, POLICIES, PROCEDURES: 
  
The City Council may adopt from time to time, by resolution, rules, policies and procedures 
for the implementation of this Chapter. Violation of any such rule, policy or procedure by a 
property owner shall be considered a violation of this Ordinance. 
  
909.16: NO WARRANTY BY THE CITY: 
  
By enacting and undertaking to enforce this Ordinance, neither the City, its designees, the City 
Council, or its officers, agents or employees warrant or guarantee the safety, fitness or 
suitability of any dwelling in the City. Owners or occupants should take whatever steps they 
deem appropriate to protect their interests, health, safety and welfare. A warning in 
substantially the foregoing language shall be printed on the face of the short-term rental license.  
 
909.17: SEVERABILITY: 
  
If any provision of this Chapter or amendment thereto, or the application thereof to any person, 
entity or circumstance, is held invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, 
the remainder of this Chapter shall  remain in full force and effect and the application thereof 
to other persons, entities or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.  
 
Section Two.  Fee Schedule Amended.    The Roseville City Code, Title 3 (Business Regulations), 
Section 314.051 (General Business Licenses and F ees) is hereby amended to add fee s related to 
Short-Term Rental licensing. 
 
Item / Description City 
Code 
2021  
Amount 
Short-Term Rental License 909 $515 
    Failure to renew w/in 5 days 909 $100 
    Administrative fine 909 $100 
    Appeal 909 $100 
 
 
 
 
Underline reflects new language 
 
Section Three.  Effective Date.  This ordinance amendment to the City Code shall take effect  
upon passage and publication of the ordinance. 
 
Passed this 8th day of February 2021. 
 